---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "xelon_device Resource - terraform-provider-xelon"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The device resource allows you to manage Xelon devices.
  Devices are the virtual machines that run your applications.
---

# xelon_device (Resource)

The device resource allows you to manage Xelon devices.

Devices are the virtual machines that run your applications.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "xelon_device" "server" {
  cpu_core_count = 2
  disk_size      = 10
  display_name   = "server"
  hostname       = "server"
  memory         = 2
  password       = "<generated-secure-password>"
  swap_disk_size = 1
  template_id    = "<template-id>"
  tenant_id      = "<tenant-id>"

  networks = [
    {
      connected = true
      id        = "<network-id>"
    }
  ]
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cpu_core_count` (Number) The number of CPU cores to allocate to the device.
- `disk_size` (Number) The size of the primary disk in GB.
- `display_name` (String) The name of the device.
- `hostname` (String) The hostname of the device
- `memory` (Number) The amount of RAM in GB to allocate to the device.
- `networks` (Attributes Set) The networks configured for the device. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networks))
- `password` (String, Sensitive) The password for the device root or administrator user.
- `swap_disk_size` (Number) The size of the swap disk in GB.
- `template_id` (String) The template ID used to create the device.
- `tenant_id` (String) The tenant ID to whom the device belongs.

### Optional

- `backup_job_id` (Number) The ID for the backup job.
- `enable_monitoring` (Boolean) Whether to enable monitoring for the device.
- `script_id` (String) The ID of the script to be executed during the device setup.
- `send_email` (Boolean) Whether to send an email notification upon successful device creation.
- `ssh_key_id` (String) The ID of the SSH key to be used for authentication.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the device.

<a id="nestedatt--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networks`

Required:

- `connected` (Boolean) Whether the network should automatically connect when the device powers on.
- `id` (String) The network ID to which the device will connect.

Optional:

- `ipv4_address` (String) The static IP address for the network connection.
- `ipv4_address_id` (String) The ID of the static IP address for the network connection.
