---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "xelon_xks_cluster Resource - terraform-provider-xelon"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The XKS cluster resource allows you to manage Xelon Kubernetes cluster.
---

# xelon_xks_cluster (Resource)

The XKS cluster resource allows you to manage Xelon Kubernetes cluster.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cloud_id` (String) The ID of the cloud in which the XKS cluster will be provisioned.
- `kubernetes_version` (String) Desired Kubernetes version for the XKS cluster.
- `name` (String) The name of the XKS cluster.
- `talos_version` (String) Desired Talos version for the XKS cluster.
- `tenant_id` (String) The tenant ID of the XKS cluster.

### Optional

- `control_plane` (Attributes) The configuration related to the cluster control plane. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--control_plane))
- `load_balancer` (Attributes) The configuration related to the load balancer. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--load_balancer))
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of the XKS cluster.

<a id="nestedatt--control_plane"></a>
### Nested Schema for `control_plane`

Optional:

- `cpu_core_count` (Number) The number of CPU cores to allocate to control plane nodes. Defaults to `2`.
- `disk_size` (Number) The size of the primary disk in GB. Defaults to `50`.
- `high_availability_enabled` (Boolean) Whether to enable high availability (HA) mode. Defaults to `true`.
- `memory` (Number) The amount of RAM in GB to allocate to control plane nodes. Defaults to `4`.


<a id="nestedatt--load_balancer"></a>
### Nested Schema for `load_balancer`

Optional:

- `cpu_core_count` (Number) The number of CPU cores to allocate to the load balancer. Defaults to `2`.
- `disk_size` (Number) The size of the primary disk in GB. Defaults to `50`.
- `high_availability_enabled` (Boolean) Whether to enable high availability (HA) mode. Defaults to `true`.
- `memory` (Number) The amount of RAM in GB to allocate to the load balancer. Defaults to `4`.


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) Defaults to 30m.
